# Autonomous Quadcopter Navigation for Search and Rescue Missions Using Computer Vision and Convolutional Neural Networks

In this paper, we present a system using quadcopters for search and rescue missions, focusing on person detection, face recognition and tracking of identified individuals. The proposed solution, tested in a laboratory envi-ronment, integrates a DJI Tello quadcopter with ROS2 framework that utiliz-es multiple convolutional neural networks (CNN) with system identification and controller deployment for optimal autonomous quadcopter navigation. The ROS2 environment consists of YOLOv11 CNN, YOLOv11-pose CNN, and the dlib library, which provides CNN for face recognition. The system detects a specific individual and performs face recognition and starts track-ing. If the individual is not yet known, the quadcopter operators can manual-ly locate the person, save their facial image and immediately initiate the tracking process. The tracking process relies on specific keypoints identified on the human body using the YOLOv11-pose model. These keypoints are used to track a specific individual and maintain a safe distance. To enhance accurate tracking, system identification is performed, based on measurement data from the quadcopter’s IMU. The identified system parameters are used to design PD controllers that utilize YOLOv11-pose to estimate the distance between the quadcopter’s camera and the target individual. The initial exper-iments, conducted on 11 known individuals demonstrated that the proposed system can be successfully used in real time. The next step involves imple-menting the system on a large experimental drone for field use and integrat-ing autonomous navigation with GPS-guided control.

## Overview
This paper presents:
- Authonomous Search and Rescue system using UAVs
- People detection, face recognition and body tracking using deep learining algorithms.
- Data-driven system identification and PD controller design.
